# Project_one_MAD
The first dataset analyzed is a real personal dataset of 678 trips done by a Russian Uber customer, Stan Tyan (https://www.kaggle.com/stantyan/uber-rides).
This first anaylys is a count of Uber trips of Stan Tyan by distance category. These distance categories were created through a binning method of data analysis. A pie chart shows that most Uber trips of Stan Tyan were of short distance (5-9km).
Similarly, the second step is to count Uber trips by weather condition. The bar graph shows that most Uber trips were done when mostly cloudy, overcast, and partly cloudy.
As a result of this tendency to take Uber during mostly cloudy weather conditions, we have analyzed if there is a correlation between temperature value and distance(kms). There is no correlation.
Then, we have analyzed if there is correlation between the frequency of Uber trip and average temperature value, but we have still got no correlation.
However, we have finally found out that there is a moderate correlation between distance and Uber fare.
In order to answer the question, "which car is the most used by Uber drivers?", we have found the top most commonly used 5 cars in Stan's dataset. The related pie chart shows the distribution of top 5 cars and the other cars while the bar chart shows the count of the top 5 cars. The top 5 cars are: Hyunday Solaris, Volkswagen Polo, Kia Rio, Ford Focus, Nissan Almera. These results show the best fuel efficient cars for prospective Uber drivers or any future car buyer.
Consequently, we have analyzed the prices/km in the 3 cities where Stan took Uber. The boxplot comparison analysis shows that Uber trips in Moscow have a higher median price/km than Uber trips in Ekaterinburg and Saint Petersburg and a higher variability.
Since the dataset contains the gender column, we have decided to graph the percentage of femal Uber drivers vs. male drivers. The corresponding pie chart shows 97.2% of male Uber drivers vs. 2.8% of female Uber drivers. Since the number of female Uber drivers is extremely law, we have decided not to continue a gender analysis of the dataset.
Afterwords, we have analyzed the 15 most popular drivers' first names. The bar chart shows that Aleksandr is the most common name for Uber drivers.
We have decided to analyze the minimum, average and maximum wait time throughout the years (2015-2018). The line graph shows the evolution of the wait time with its peaks and lows.
